went on to Vietnam after a tour as a drill
instructor at Quantico, Virginia, and suffered a
bullet wound in the back of his head. These things
run deep, but the other guy got his girlfriend
pregnant and he had to leave the Corps too, so that
was two bad apples that left within a year or so of
our arrival. Now, if you got caught, and sometimes
you wanted to get caught at pranks, this is no
different. Stealing your CO's footlocker or the
fetal pig in the mess hall or anything else, it's
okay because then we're all in it together. Oh, and
also then you get credit for the originality of the
prank. Is that part of it? Sure, and we were, you
know, we stole our, not only our CO, or his
footlocker, but we stole him too, and hid him out in
the bushes and of course he beat us back in no time.
That was back when the university was trying to cut
down on stealing foot lockers before the Texas
game. Where did you hide the foot locker when you
stole it? I don't remember. I wasn't in on hiding
it. A couple of freshmen took it and they had a
brother-in-law that lived in North Bryan, near as
I remember, and it was in his garage. They got it
over there. We only had four freshmen with
vehicles, so it was, they were all our best
friends. It was hard to transport stuff around
back then. All right, and did you take it, did
somebody take it out on the Kyle Field? It made it
out to Kyle Field. What happened to the guys that
actually carried it out there? Did they get any
punishment different from anybody else? No, they
escaped and they did it right at the right time when
the TU band was coming off the field and they
escaped and didn't get caught because it happened
in Austin and nobody knew what to do with them. So
they jumped the fence and were gone.
trying to think of what else. We also stole our CO's
sink, too. We figured, we had a couple guys in there
that said, heck, let's don't stop with the
footlocker. They took him, let's do whatever we
can to screw him up. How did, was it taken off the
wall? Taken off the wall, yeah. We had one guy that
had pipe wrenches and everything. We had a group, a
subunit within our freshman class called the
Aardvarks, and they would scrounge for stuff that
we needed. If our upperclassmen needed
showerheads, uh... the aardvarks would go steal
shower heads and i know uh...
rick perry and john sharp were both aardvarks in
fact for a little while i think perry's nickname
was the blue goose but uh... a guy named mike riesby
that was in and out of our outfit about three or four
times made it around final review with us i don't
think he ever graduated but uh... he lives in baton
rouge now constant discipline problem but uh...
just one of those guys that is just part of the part
of the outfit he uh... He was in the aardvarks. The
best place to steal showerheads was Corps Staff,
because they didn't have anybody to defend them,
and they didn't have any freshmen to look after
things, and they could get things fixed, so we
pretty well, the upperclassmen wanted some
requisition. They never asked us where it came
from, but steam tunnels were another choice
method of transport. When did you learn about
steam tunnels? How soon in the year? Some, one of
our, and I don't remember, one of our fish buddies
came in one Sunday night grinning and he'd heard
about it from someone and had gone exploring and
these are the tunnels underneath all of the
buildings on the campus. And so got some, you know,
a couple of us got some flashlights and we were
scared and you go exploring around and we'd end up
in different parts of the campus and sometime one
night we heard voices and saw a light and we thought
the campus cops were after us and then we got lost
and then flashlight went out and that kind of
cooled us on the steam tunneling for a while but
Steam tunnels were something that sort of passed
on and people found out about but nobody
advertises. Did you ever hear of any injury, any
unfortunate accident in a steam tunnel? I've not.
I've never heard of a thing. There's writing. We
found writing on some of the walls from many years
before us. A lot of history down underneath the
ground at A&M. I don't even know if you can still get
down in them. I have no idea. Oh, there's all kinds
of security now. Oh, I bet. They've killed that
fun. How long was it before you and your buddies
began to escape to go have a good time or something
somewhere off campus? Well, there were four Four
outfit buddies that had, four out of 56 had
vehicles, and of course, numbers started to
dwindle, but during the fall, you don't have, back
then, didn't have much time to do anything. We had,
even though we're an Air Force outfit, we
sometimes had Saturday morning drill and things
like that, edge football games to go to. There
wasn't a lot of breaking out and escaping. Those
that could, that had steady girlfriends and just
had to be away, would find ways to get back to
houston or to get to waco but you start you have your
core trips and then one or two other weekends most
of your expanding doesn't really start happen
until your the spring of your freshman year and
you've got a little bit more time and you realize
you're not going to die, and then you can get out and
go do. All right. You had made good grades. You were
Midland Bulldog. Lee Rebel, actually, but that's
fine. Oh, that new high school. Yeah, the new high
school. All right, and how did the grades turn out,
say, mid-semester? Mid-semester we're good. I
was fine all the way through. I had a focus on going
to vet school and Carl Alexander, the boy from
Louisiana, and myself had both posted, I think I
had a 3.55 and he was 3.2 or 3.3, 3.3 I guess because
we both were distinguished students. That was a
big deal in our outfit because they hadn't had a
distinguished student in two years. I remember
they had a corps ceremony and Hector Gutierrez was
the corps commander at that time. He came by and
pinned a little medals on us or whatever we did, but
we thought it was a big deal and we were encouraged.
Was that at the first semester? That was at the end
of the first semester, so I guess that probably
would have been early spring of the second
semester, but midterm grades were fine. I was I
don't recall, but I knew I was okay. I wasn't
worried. You were taking probably 17, 18 hours? I
think I was taking 17.
Describe a typical class day routine for you that
freshman year. What time did you get up and what did
you do? get up whenever I never got up before the
whistle jock and get up with the first whistle
which I was probably quarter six six o'clock in the
morning and blow whistles you shower shave get
dressed fall out on the wall sophomores come
inspect your uniforms ask you questions your
detention on the wall for 15 to 20 minutes before
you fall out for chow go to formation You march to
chow, you go in, you have your breakfast, get out,
you have time to get back to your hole. You have a
mail detail going out. Some freshmen's assigned
mail detail for the day. Somebody had laundry
detail to pick up laundry bags. and get your room
ready for inspection, and then to head for class.
Classes would start, I always had an eight o'clock
class, so I was on my way to class by 7.45, at the
latest, 7.40, depending on where the building
was. That first fall had algebra, chemistry.
English. English and history. in a biology
course, I guess. Probably those five labs. I never
had any morning labs. They seemed like they were
always in the afternoon. But going to class,
seemed to have enough time to get from one class to
another. Didn't need a bicycle or anything. Most
of the classes, they were all in the central part of
the campus, different. I remember the, let's see,
where was the history class? Was it in the academic
building? Or was it? Academic and Nagel. I believe
it was in Nagel Hall. We were in Nagel. Academic, I
had an English class there. And about what, do you
remember the size of the classes? Those classes
were, for the most, the chemistry class was large.
There was probably 350 students in the chemistry,
300, 350 students in the chemistry class. The
algebra, English, and history classes were
probably Less than 25 students, 20 to 25 at the
most. And those were honors classes. There was an
honors colloquium, I think, probably on a monthly
basis. It was in the old physics building. And this
is where the... Where did, if you had an hour off in
the morning, where did you take a break, or what did
you do with a spare hour? If you had time off, there
were times, depending, you might go back to your
home, go back to your rooms. It was quiet. There
were times I'd go to the library. There were times
I'd go to the MSC, to Memorial Student Center. I
didn't, there wasn't really any other place to go
that was fun to go. When you went to the MSC, did you
have a cup of coffee or a Coke? Yeah, a lot of times
you'd meet somebody, sit down, have a Coke or
visit. Yeah, there's almost always somebody. And
as a freshman there, we had one fish buddy that
posted one grade point his first semester, Rudy
Kretschmeyer. I don't remember where he was, but
he came to college with a custom pool cue. Rudy made
money at the MSC. What he lost on tuition and fees
and flunking out of A&M, he more than made up for
hustling pool games. And there was more than once I
went over and watched that kid shoot pool. I didn't
know anything about it, but he was a master. It
would be interesting to know where he is now. Oh,
he's bound to have done well. He was a hustler. But
the Corps wasn't for him, nor were the academics.
Did you all march into Chow at lunch, or did you go on
your own?
I believe lunchtime we went on our own. I don't
believe we formed up. You still, you blocked in at
chow and you were pretty well at the mercy of
whoever you sat with. I'm pretty sure that's how it
went. I don't recall us having a noontime
formation. I think it was just morning and
evenings we had our formations. Then in the
afternoons, if you didn't have a lab, if you had an
unscheduled afternoon, Typically, I was back in
my hole, studying, getting things ready, if I'd
had nothing else pressing. If I had a project, if I
needed time to go do something, I would go do it. But
there was no need for me to go anywhere else. I had
plenty of core activities. There's always stuff
to get ready. There's always room stuff to fix up,
always uniform, always studies to get ready. If
you have time and you need it, you can go take a nap if
you can get away with it. In your outfit, did
upperclassmen bother if you were studying in the
afternoon in your home? Not much. Some of them
might come by and visit, but for the most part,
they'd leave you alone. And it was rare that you
would ever have any outfit duties unless they had
something needed to be done. They wouldn't mess
with you. Normally, if you had things to do, that
started around 5 o'clock in the evening, usually
about an hour before chow. What about
intramurals? Intramurals, that time period,
that 4, 30, 5 o'clock, we would have, that's when we
had outfit football, things like that. And do that
till right before chow, get back, and then shower
and change for chow. And then if there were any
pranks or any time at mealtime, it was at the
evening meal. Evening meals are where most of this
stuff happened. It seems like breakfast was
pretty straightforward, but the evening meals
you never knew. And all of my fondest memories,
more of them center around the mess hall than
anything else, and some not so fond. But the
evening meal, the whole outfit was together. It
was before quizzes, but everybody, and I don't
know what it's like now, but I have a feeling a lot of
kids drift in and out, and there's a lot of
different schedules. Everybody came back home
for the evening. The family came home for the
evening meal and nobody slept in and missed the
evening meal. Everybody showed up. That was the
one time everybody was together. One of my not so
fond memories when I was a senior, I was commanding
officer of our outfit and we'd had problems. We
always lived near the band and so we always had
friction, always problems. I had three of my
seniors that had basically no jobs in the outfit
managed Eastgate lounge a beer joint at Eastgate
that was nothing but a template for disaster and
from where they parked their cars it was a shortcut
to walk right across the BQ drill field which would
invoke the ire of the BQ's they would come out
sometimes there were fights there were problems I
found certain doors in the trigon to become very
familiar because I was in vet school at the time and
trying to run the outfit I'd get back from vet
school and have to go over the trigon and explain
what happened the night before. Anyway, one day
evening, I was late for evening chow. Executive
officer took the troops to chow. I got in just in
time. They're just starting to serve. Sat down
just in time to see a stud bucket, one of the iced tea
pitchers, full, go sailing out of the middle of my
outfit into the band. And that was, I believe, a
$2,300 food fight later that at least the good
thing about your other outfits in the Corps, they
would bond together with us. And it was everybody
against the band, and that's because they had more
people.
Let's
see, we mentioned nicknames. I had a question
about nicknames, but we've already mentioned
that. Oh, did the faculty have nicknames? so I
think that had vanished by your day there was one
guy that some of the upperclassmen had I believe he
taught statistics or something class I was never
involved in last name was linger and they called
him linger the finger I remember that I don't I
don't recall any now that's been in undergraduate
days too far back, so I don't recall any other
nicknames. In the early days in the history
department, there was one guy, extremely,
extremely conservative in his politics, and he
was called Screamin' Al, and he would cuss
Roosevelt and the other communists in the
Democratic Party. And there were these
characters. And again, it was like the core
nicknames. These were kind of identifiers that,
you know, he may be strange, but he's kind of okay.
Well, we had some in vet school, though. We had
Whispering Willie Banks, who taught radiology
and showed us an hour and a half of x-rays in a
darkened amphitheater after lunch and talked in a
quiet monotone and it was death and fell asleep in
his class he'd fail you it was horrible so we would
learn to answer for other students that were
asleep the other was mad dog davis and some of those
but those were vet school names
the first tests and the first grades, when did you
begin to feel like, okay, I think I can do it? I know
when I got my first freshman chemistry quiz back,
and I made a 94, and they posted the grades,
computerized, it was early computer stuff, but
they posted them an old printout sheet just taped
to the stone next to the wall, on the wall going into
the doors. And you walked up the steps, it was like
going to Mecca, and everybody was crowding around
looking at their grades. And I saw a 94 and I
thought, okay, I can do this. And I remember
getting an A that same day on an algebra quiz that
came back. And so I knew that I wasn't going to flunk
out the first week or two at A&M. So I wasn't home
free, but I knew I could do the work. Did any of your
buddies tease you or pat you on the back that word
circulating? Well, a couple of us had done well,
and we had probably five or six in the outfit that
had done real well that first three or four weeks,
and a couple of the upperclassmen called us
goddamn grade point queers, and that old army was
shot to hell. This outfit will never be the same.
We've never had anybody, you know, do well in this
outfit. Kind of like an animal house, but... No, I
mean, for the most part, they, you know, the guys
that didn't, you try to encourage them and the
other guys, great. There wasn't anybody that, we
had some bright students, had a couple guys who
were very bright that never, never did much. They
never amounted to much because they found other
interests or things that took away from. Who did
you turn to for academic advice in your
undergraduate years before you went to vet
school? We had an outfit advisor, but they, I never
had any, any dealings. Pretty well, you just did
things on your own. You could,
remember talking with a couple of upperclassmen
that were in a different outfit that might be in the
same same class that were okay that I could talk to
and the problem is our sophomore class was so weak
in our outfit they'd lost so many people none of
them were in pre-vet and none of they were in AG
courses and other things so there wasn't anybody
in the outfit for me to talk to and that's one of the
things that did as I stayed on in the outfit we felt
like we really needed to change and we got a little
bit more involved with mentoring and tutoring
with students and it was encouraged from the
trigon and we had oh gee it was a doctor may have been
land I can't remember from the college of
agriculture that got to coming over when I was a
junior I was in vet school at the time but he would
come over and he would visit and counsel with a
freshman that's probably some of the first but I
was an academic scholastic sergeant and it I think
it helped. Our attrition was not as bad. Do you
remember some of the first traditional events
your freshman year? Oh, sure. Take your pick.
First Yale practice after you're at chow and
somebody yells, tonight, and everybody jumps off
and runs to Kyle Field to practice and do Yale
practice, and then you uh didn't realize the
tradition of trying to steal each other's guidons
and the fist fights that broke out and defending
your guidon these are i thought wait these were
supposed to be our core buddies about that time
somebody hit uh mike reasonably in the back of the
head and then all hell broke loose and uh We took
care of our own.
Court trip, freshman court trip. Do you remember
where you were? I remember it well. Fort Worth,
Texas. And I drove up there with Carl Alexander.
And this is, you know, it seems like nothing now,
but for us to leave College Station and drive to
Fort Worth and find the house where his date and my
girlfriend and some others were staying, you
know, May not have been a country bumpkin, but
wasn't used to driving in the big city either, so
that was interesting. We, of course, played TCU.
Had a fight at the TCU game. We weren't involved
with, but there were some TCU kids that got cuffed
and hauled off. They pulled a banner in front of the
Aggie student section that said rotten to the core
and had an apple core with a worm coming out of it.
Just can't let that stuff happen. When y'all
marched down the street that morning in Fort
Worth, how did the spectators respond to the
Aggies? Well, you gotta remember, it was the fall
of 68. This is the height of the Vietnam War. A lot of
anti-war sentiment, and yet there wasn't any
there. It was, you know, God bless America, we love
you guys, and it made you feel real special. I have
not yet had a single incident in 150 interviews No,
no, it was just, it was fantastic. And what did you
all do that you can describe, that you can talk
about now on Saturday night? Well, back up, that
was Dallas. We went to Fort Worth together, and
that's where the girls were, but the actual court
trip, and I remember it was in Dallas, and that was
where we had our big... party that night on
Saturday night. So it was SMU, not TCU? It was SMU,
that's right. TCU fight was when we were
sophomores, but the girls were over in Fort Worth.
Back to your question, it was... What did you all do
that Saturday night? That Saturday night we had a
corps party. They had a part of the convention
center rented downtown in Dallas, had a live band,
and
Of course, we were clueless. We didn't have any
idea, but it was a giant drunk. And that's the way it
was back then. We got there a little late, and one of
the girls had to go to the restroom, and she came out
and said, there's two girls thrown up in there. And
I said, really? And about that time somebody came
out and he'd slipped in the vomit in the men's
restroom, but it was just a big, loud, wild dance
with lots of drinking. What were people drinking?
Was it beer or whiskey or what? Both. Both? Both.
And it's amazing because you've got a tremendous
number of people who are underage, but it seemed to
happen and it seemed to be okay and nobody got in any
trouble. So you came back home then on Sunday? Came
on Sunday, and that always... There's a certain
element of depression when we would, as freshmen,
the closer you got to college station, the worst
day in the world was coming back after Christmas
holidays. And we all got in, we all huddled in one
freshman's room and one fished whole and all of a
sudden we realized that there was at least seven or
eight guys that weren't coming back. At least,
maybe more, but... Alright, now the semester
ended before Christmas then? No, the semester
ended after Christmas, so we had, we still, we came
back after Christmas, you still had finals to get
ready for, so it wasn't, wasn't a good time. It
wasn't much fun, and on a court trip going back,
everybody would, would straggle in. We had some
guys that straggled in at two or three in the
morning, you know, way late to report in, but they
took head count the next, next Monday morning,
check bruises on necks and bruises on noses, and I
think pretty well everybody made it. Nobody was in
jail, so it was a successful court trip. Your first
silver taps, do you remember? I do. We gathered in
the hall, and C.O. and his roommate, Roger
Matchin, George Schreiber was CO, Roger Matchin
was his XO, explained to us through the addition of
silver taps and being quiet, and tonight this is
what's going to happen at 1015, and this is how you
will do it. And then the First Sergeant, Billy
Hall, took over, and anyone caught talking, you
know, is dead, you know, and this is a very solemn
occasion. And so we quietly streamed, soundless,
from the Duncan area, and it was a very moving
ceremony. I'll never forget it. Do you remember
any silver taps for someone that you knew well?
Yes. In 19, that same freshman year, I guess it was,
was it in the fall? It was probably in the early
spring. One of our fish buddies, Tommy Stein, died
while we were running. And just by God's grace, it
was the Air Force 5BX exercise long run testing
deal. And we were out for an outfit run and doing all
this stuff. Tommy, who had been on the track team in
Hondo, Texas, had a valve failure, and he died
right there next to Duncan Dining Hall on the south
side there. And I remember our first sergeant,
Bill Hall, giving him CPR. So ours was a little bit
different outfit, and this may have been one of the
reasons we bonded so closely together, but our
entire outfit went to the funeral in Hondo. And we
had a number of kids. We had two or three from Hondo
and DeHannis that were in, well, two or three in our
outfit, and then four or five in that area that were
in the Corps. And pretty moving deal. We all wore
uniforms and we were there at the Catholic Church
and then the funeral there in Hondo. Stayed up at
Glenn Garrison's family's ranch north of Hondo,
about 20 miles north. And... That Silver Taps for
Tommy Stein was very moving. And I know his younger
brother, Wayne, has kids roughly the age of ours,
and we've met playing baseball against Hondo. You
remember Coach Stein? Yeah, these things go on.
You remember. It's kind of like family. And do you
ever remember any mischief as a part of going to or
from Silver Taps? No, no. That was sacrosanct. I
hope you've never had a report of any, but it is for
real. Those people that want to go to Silver Taps go
because it's like going to church. It's a worship
service. And for wherever you stand, it's still a
very meaningful, solemn occasion. And, yeah, it
was never tolerated. There was never any
giggling, cutting up, grab ass, none of that. This
is an editor's note to be entered in at this point.
In the 1970s, when I was dean of faculties, a group
of students came to me to seek my thoughts about
whether or not Silver Tap should be held for an A&M
student who died in a car wreck trying to make a
getaway from a burglary in Brenham. Was a student,
and I told them that I had always understood since I
got here as a new faculty member in 1959, that
Silver Taps was to be held for everyone who was a
student here. And I said, then I think you all need
to decide, was this person a student? For better,
for worse, for richer, for poorer? That's right.
And they did decide to go ahead and hold it. I was
thinking, who are we to be the judge for better
or... Never called upon to do that. The, let's see,
bonfire that year, described by being a fish and
helping to get bonfire going. Probably, again,
one of the greatest times, and I hope they have
something to replace it for Kyle and his buds that
come on, but ours was a stacking outfit, we would, I
mean a loading outfit, You had cutting outfits,
you had outfits that would piss ant stuff out of the
woods, and then you'd have outfits that would load
onto the lowboys, and then they were taken to the
bonfire area. And there's a true science to this,
and there's a way to do it, and a right way and a wrong
way. And we were schooled and taught exactly how
to, and to this day, I've learned how to pick up
heavy objects and how to school people and how to do
it properly to keep from getting hurt. And we'd
lift the logs up and The guys closest to the truck,
we'd pitch them up, they'd switch sides, and then
we'd slam them down, everybody's hands on top. And
we loaded all those trucks, and nobody ever got
hurt. We had wrestling matches. When we had time
off, it was people chewing tobacco, and we all wore
red and white polka-dotted welder's caps. Those
were our outfit caps. We were kind of an ag outfit,
and we had... There was a lot of, there were foot
races and tug of wars and wrestling matches and a
couple times we had freshmen against sophomores
and they got pretty heated pretty quick, but it was
all good fun. We had one group, Spider D boys were a
cutting outfit and they'd cut down a tree that had a
bunch of honeybees in it and a bunch of wild honey.
And they left a couple people guarding the honey
and We went around and one of our boys, Fish
Schwartz, said, hey guys, look at this. And we
stole half of their honey. And just little things
like that that make it all worthwhile. Where was
the cutting area, do you remember? Don't recall.
Don't recall. It was about, near as I can remember,
it was probably about 15, 20 miles from the campus.
It wasn't real close. And the bonfire was it on the
drill field or at Duncan? It was at Duncan. Duncan.
And the bonfire was another one of these, Oh
tremendous bonding bonding bonding deal between
that steel and the footlocker that really brought
your your fish class together. The bonfire
belonged to the freshmen and it was we took a lot of
pride in it I think the bonfire that year was a
hundred and two foot tall. About how long did y'all
work on it? My recollection I believe we worked on
it probably three straight days of loading, and
then there were a couple of early weekends
involved as well, but three straight days.
During that first year, were there any
celebrities that came to the campus? No. Outside
of
See, General Rutter died when I was, I guess, a
sophomore. You know, you had your town hall
performers and that sort of thing. I'm sure there
were, I don't recall any, or anything anything
special we did have i can remember they weren't
celebrities but we had as typically we had some
kids from west point that were staying with one of
the outfits and we had the privilege of taking them
to the quad you know as soon as a upperclassman saw
them and said you know don't mess around don't wait
for the army kid you guys get in there you get them
and so we took those west point guys to the quad At
the end of that freshman year, well, let's see,
let's do Muster. Did you go to Muster? Not, not,
where was I? Yes, I did. Went to Muster because we
sat out on the lawn at the MSC. That's where it was.
Went to Muster. And, you know, things start
happening pretty fast at the end of your your fish
year, there are positions coming up, there are
awards, there are different things. Those that
are going to survive realize that they've made it.
How did you feel at final review that fish year?
I remember a senior in our outfit named Ricky
Reynolds from Midland that had a big old scar face
from a car wreck, but he